# Explore_weahter_trends
In this project, I analyzed local and global temperature data and compared the temperature trends where I live (Lagos) to overall global temperature trends.
* I extracted the data for the analysis from a database using an SQL query. 
* I calculated a moving average in a spreadsheet
* I created a line chart in a spreadsheet.

## Steps taken to extract the data and generate chart
The data was extracted from the Udacity Classroom, SQL environment. To extract the data, I wrote a query to extract the data. The query I wrote were:
SELECT * 
<br> FROM city_data;

<br> SELECT *
<br> FROM city_list;

<br> SELECT *
<br> FROM global_data

<br> •	Afterwards, I downloaded the file in a csv format (comma separated variable) and opened it in an Excel spreadsheet.

<br> •	I extracted the temperature data for Lagos from the city_data and compared them with that from global data. I used only data from 1849-2013 in the global data because these were the data in the corresponding Lagos temperature data.

<br> •	Some of the data in Lagos were missing, so I filled those missing data with the average of the entire data. The average was gotten by calculating a sum of the entire temperature using the =sum() function in excel and dividing by the number of occurrences. 

<br> •	To obtain an even trend, I calculated the 7-moving average of the temperature using the =average() function of the first seven temperature data. I did a flash fill to fill the rest.

<br> •	The trend lines for the data were generated by using the insert tab (navigate to the Insert Chart). The preference to use a line chart was informed primarily because of the characteristic of the visualization to show the relationship between the two parameters of interest.

The charts/visualization can be accessed in the [pdf](https://github.com/Elohorokpako/Explore_weahter_trends)

## Observations/Insights
<br> •	The average temperature in my city, Lagos is higher than the average of the world, suggesting that Lagos is hotter than the average city in the world.
<br> •	The trend is an slowly rising upward trend for both data, suggesting that the world is heading to a global warming crisis in the coming years.
<br> •	The upward trend in Nigeria is however steeper with spikes and fluctuations than that of the global data. This is observed around 1861- 1879.
<br> •	The rise in the trend is mostly observe towards the end of the line, 2002-2013 with a sharp rise in this area.

